For example, in Azoki teaching, that is what we all are meditating, that awareness and emptiness,
awareness and emptiness is what the teacher said, what you read in the text, only in the books.
And now you are going to put that in your, because your intelligence, if it's true or not.
If there is certain some doubt and hesitations, then your self will encourage that to yourself, or
discuss with the Sangha members, or to the teachers, discuss that.
It's true awareness, emptiness, awareness, it is what really they said, that is what we are trying
to meditate, but it's true or not.
I am trying to bring that, that meaning, meaning, that into heart or in the mind with the certainty
, the wisdom, that then, then you don't have any doubt afterwards.
When you don't have the doubt and hesitation, when you develop that confidence, then, then you go
forward.
And then on the party, when there is some doubt and hesitation comes, that is obstacle, that is
hindrance, that is interference of the emotions,
negilivities or the duality, then we shouldn't go on that side tracks, continually maintain what
you already developed, great certainty, wisdom and confidence,
of such as, like, awareness, emptiness, stiffness. And that is the knowledge then, the emptiness,
awareness, oh, sorry, that is the knowledge then, the certainty or the contemplation, the wisdom.
(Tibetan)
Now, in these three wisdoms, now most wisdom is this wisdom that comes from the study, that you
went through books of, you studied.
Through that wisdom, you kind of understand the meanings of the words, languages, all that kind of,
you understand, that meanings, see.
And then, second wisdom is the kind of process of the inquiry, to the meaning of that, what you
studied. You really went through that, through that, through that, so you analyzed that.
And now these two are very, very special and important. But if you just leave there, then you
become maybe good scholars, good scholars.
That's nothing but scholars. For example, then, like, you become nice, like, in a, in a, what's
called, inner sciences, you become a good psychiatrist, good psychiatrist, good psychiatrist.
But that is not the only, that's the point in the Buddha's teacher. After that, then, third wisdom
has to be applied. That is known as the wisdom, meditation or the practice of wisdom.
The wisdom that comes from the practice and the meditation. If you didn't do this third one, then
that is known as called, the knowledge is become, or mainly, ideas.
Or the wisdom becomes ideas. Or mainly, knowledge, that, or knowledge or the wisdom, the meaning,
you left on the books or the shelters, shelters.
It's not really observing in your heart and mind. What it is observing in your heart and mind, to
improve your self, man your self, and that what you studied, is the practice, practice in
meditation.
Meditation or practice? Meditation is practice. Practice is practices, practices. In many other
Buddhism generally, practice, we're joining, is meditation.
Reciting is meditation. In silence is meditation, meditation. All, all is meditation practices. It
's not just, it's joining and reciting, it's kind of outside of meditation.
That you all know, the whole process. Everything is within that practice of status or meditative
status.
And therefore, with that, then it began to, your self become what you, our self become, what we
studied, what we learned.